## Title: Digital Twin

### Submitter(s): 

Qing An

### Reviewer(s):


### Tracker Issue ID:



### Category:

horizontal

### Class: 



### Status: 



### Target Users
Digital twin involves managing a physical device or a group of connected physical devices which needs to be virtually represented, and whose data needs to be understood.
Stakeholders include:
- device owners: need to make data from devices available to digital twin system.
- device user: users of the digital twin system are indirectly using the devices by accessing their data generated by the devices and sent to the digital twin, and also, by sending commands to the digital twin and corresponding actions can be automatically invoked on the device.
- cloud or edge provider: the digital twin system may be hosted in the cloud or in the edge.

### Motivation:

A digital twin is a virtual and digital representation, located in the cloud or in the edge, of a real-world entity or system that mirrors a unique physical object, or a group of connected physical devices. 

Simply by describing a single device’s functionalities is not enough to support the accurate virtual representation in the cloud or edge. To accurately simulate the physical entity or system, the real-time status of device, the relation and rules among a collection of connected devices need be standardized.

### Expected Devices:

Devices can include sensors, actuators, machines, vehicles, production lines, industry robots.

Cloud or edge, to host the digital twin. 

### Expected Data:

Device status information, discrete sensor data.

Device relation information, indicating one device’s relation with other devices in a group of connected devices, and what-if rules.

### Dependencies - Affected WoT deliverables and/or work items:

WoT Thing Description and Thing Model, WoT Architecture

### Description:

By virtually represent the devices and understand their data in context, a digital twin can reflect, in a timely manner across life cycle, the state of the devices based on the historical data and real-time device data.

Based on the virtual representation, further services can be provided, like real-time troubleshooting, simulation and prediction.

### Gaps:

WoT does not define a way to describe the relationship and behabior of connected things to use for a simulation.


